[Music]
I I think that's a louder cheer than
Bernie Sanders got wooden who's here two
weeks ago so so well done thanks thanks
for coming along today my pleasure
I'll ask a few questions and then
hopefully you've got some entertaining
and witty questions to ask as well so
we'll get some from the audience too so
I mentioned in my introduction that
you're on tour at the moment and you've
been spending a lot of time this year on
it and that's after seven years from
your previous stand-up tour what brought
you back
um well it
I never went away it's just that it kept
getting pushed back and I think the
difference was I always considered
stand-up as my sort of second or third
job and I thought myself as a writer
director and and TV shows and films sort
of came first you can't you can't put a
tour and then change your mind because
tickets have been sold so you have to
know you're not doing something for a
long time and I kept doing more things
and went and when you do it all yourself
if you write and direct it you know
three hours of TV which is what I do for
a series that takes me a year you know
so the office extras Derek Idiot Abroad
which all two series and a special is
three years work and you can't really
interrupt that so it was just that I
just got second place but now I don't
know why but um it's number one on my
list now I could I could give up TV and
film to just do stand-up because I love
it more than ever I don't know why I
realized what a privilege it is it sort
of the last bastion of self-censorship
outside the novel you know what you say
is what they hear there's no and
interfering it's a good time it's a
really good time for stand-up and I
think that um I think I've probably
acquired old people's rights I'm at that
age where I can say what I want like you
nan used to you know
so yeah I've I'm absolutely loving it
more than I ever did
so you just said now stand ups great
because there's nobody interfering and
you're an obviously renowned for
speaking what you think you're probably
one of the most controversial comics out
there do you feel in the industry today
there's a real movement to be more
sensitive and hold back and being afraid
of offending firstly if someone says
you're controversial they're only right
by definition because they've said it I
you know I think um you know Darwin was
controversial when he came up with it
you know how do the species you know I
think I think people lump you in with
shock comedians who try and hurt
people's feelings or say things that
they're you know they're like trolls and
I'm not I'm always I'm always sort of
doing it for a reason I you know and
I've always said just cause you're
offended doesn't mean you're right some
people are offended by a quality so I'm
never trying to offend but in this new
tour it is it is about freedom of speech
an offense culture and and all that but
I've never considered myself I don't
know I think I got that reputation from
the Golden Globes maybe where I gently
ribbed some of them richest most
privileged beautiful people in the world
and they can get but I mean if I can
justify every joke I can justify and I
think I think some people get offended
when they mistake the subject of the
joke with the actual target particularly
when you're dealing with taboo subjects
and I do deal with taboo subjects for a
reason because I want to take the
audience to that place they hadn't been
before you know I want that people know
that a joke about a bad thing isn't the
same as the bad thing it's not even
necessarily condoning the bad thing it
could be aunty the bad thing it could be
veiled in irony or satirical or whatever
but I think I think people have to you
know look look at what a joke is
the real target is so I'd only say I'm
controversial because I talk about
controversial subjects I don't think
that the content is it's funny because
comedians always get asked is there
anything you wouldn't joke about but
journalists don't get asked is there
anything you wouldn't write about and
all we're doing is discussing a subject
but very quickly and hopefully with a
punchline so it just depends on the joke
comedy comes from a good or a bad place
so what looks like cruelty or you know
controversy sometimes it's it's
trumped-up
so you know on the topic of things that
journalists wouldn't wouldn't wouldn't
write about and what comics would and
wouldn't make fun about do you think
people can effectively satirize a joke
about what's going on in politics today
look in the UK or the u.s. you've you
know you've said a few things about the
general election you've said a few
things about Trump do you think that's
something that people should make fun of
or is it too station you can you know
you can make fun of everything but
you've got you you you've got um know
that people have the right to be annoyed
and offend didn't come back at you and
make fun of you so it's not it's not
whether you're allowed to it's people
want to find some sort of justification
but morality isn't absolute and it's in
it's relative and and an offense is
subjective so you know affected about
feeling so you know with particular
Merak or it's come down to sort of two
tribes now that you're either with him
or you're against him and then I try and
keep politics out of comedy because I
think comedy is an intellectual pursuit
and as soon as you start relying on the
audience agreeing with you you're
suddenly rallying and I think it loses
something comedic Lee you know on both
sides you know I've seen I won't name it
what I've seen it is a northern comic
and he came out and he just said what
are we gonna do about all these fucking
immigrants and he got a round of
applause and I just thought that's not a
joke
thus well I wasn't offended by I was
just offended that it wasn't a joke that
was the offensive bit for me it was you
know you've gotta hit that so it you've
got to be careful with politics that
you're not just you're not just spewing
your side and and I think it's very
important as well in comedy if I'm going
to go after anything and the I'm the
butt of the joke sometimes you know and
and that's fun for me that we in all my
work whether it's the office or or stand
up I'm usually satirizing ego and
Prejudice and all those things and I
often play the guy that gets it wrong
fact when I started off I won a thing
called the eleven o'clock show was a
satirical news show I played a sort of
an out-of-touch sort of right-wing
bigoted boor
okay you know with with heavy satire
people got it and this year I'd already
started writing this and because there
was such a such an angry divide you know
it's just suddenly on Twitter half the
people had Magga in there you know and
the victory of the flag and her holding
a gun and and the other half were crying
and I just thought and now if I do that
and I sort of come down on the wrong
side ironically I don't want any anyone
in the room for one second to think that
I'm actually like that because I didn't
realize that people like that really did
exist and we're proud of it and it's so
funny now in the last couple of years
that people think they've won something
like after brexit people were out with
placards saying we won go home and I was
thinking what did you win you had one
vote and what did what did you what do
you mean you won it's such a scissor
there is a strange shift in mentality
there's a there's a there's a vitriol to
politics it's like they're validated
where they you know
but I do I do try and keep out of okay
comedy yeah and one thing you're good
for and you you alluded to now is you're
not afraid of dividing opinion you're
not afraid of you know some people
saying I disagree with you and some
people say I agree with you is that the
same thing that's become more the case
as you've gone on your career and you've
been more successful well again it's the
if if everyone's agreeing with you
you're in an echo chamber you you've
just chosen you've just chosen your
people to speak to so that I did a tweet
the other the other week that just said
this tweet is controversial and I did a
poll and it came out fifty-fifty it's
you know controversy is just someone
saying someone that someone else doesn't
agree with but I don't know really
um I I'm never scared to talk about any
subject but I I have to be confident
that I've got something to say and what
I say is fair even if that as I say
veiled in irony by being unfair or
stupid or so it's it's it's all a
discussion it's just it's just a
discussion really and I mean the
important thing for me is that
everyone's everyone no one has to laugh
I in fact I embrace the gasps as much as
the laughs because that means they were
listening you know I think it's an
offense is good offense makes people
think it makes them think it makes them
come up with another argument you've got
to come up with an argument because I'm
just tired of people saying I'm offended
I want to say it so what that just means
you're just telling me your feelings
I've got a pain in my knee what do we do
about it
now I'm on the topic of your Twitter as
looking on your Twitter page earlier I
think you've got um you know over 12 12
and a half million followers spit better
than the union's I think poultry 27,000
that we're on at the moment but um and
through your Twitter page you talk about
animal rights you talk about other
issues that are important to you is that
an effective medium for change is that
how it is actually I know it is I mean
just practically speaking years ago it
would take you months and maybe years to
get a hundred thousand signatures
standing outside Tesco's you know for a
petition and that's the magic number
because that's when it gets heard in
Parliament and voted on and I've been
part of five six different campaigns
that have got that far so it is good it
does it's good to mobilize people
because um there's a lot of people don't
let a lot of people browse it I mean a
lot of it's nonsense you know a lot of
idiots on Twitter but there's a lot of
idiots on the high street you've still
got to go there you know so and I and my
new show I do blame Twitter for the
beginning of the demise of somewhat
tongue-in-cheek of humanity I say I've
lived through the best 50 years a
humanity you know and now it's going the
other way but and Twitter was the one
that sort of started popularity being
more important than being right you know
and people have picked up symptoms of
that in all walks of life because it's
all about likes retweets blocked someone
doesn't agree with you so you get you
create your own echo chamber same as
Facebook and and also started this this
ridiculous myth you know we in my
opinion is worth as much as your opinion
now people say things like my opinion is
worth as much as your facts I think was
just not true it's just you know so that
is a worry that is a worry in this post
true theory that the more you say a lie
you know the more people will take it as
the truth it doesn't make it true
so what do you think should happen I
mean you can't ban stupid people out
there are wrong people from talking know
you know your course you can't and I
quote I like stupid people because they
make me seem clever
they they bring the average down so far
that they put me in like the top few
percent so I wouldn't have a thing said
against I mean stupidity ignorance is is
the biggest danger to you money you know
it really is I mean that's a very broad
thing to say and but um I mean there are
some incredibly stupid people in the
world but as I say I'm a big fan I'm a
big I'm a big fan of their numbers in
their what they do to the average so I'm
staying on this talk about the topic of
social media you've just said it's a
great opportunity to organize people get
people together and probably one good
byproduct of your fame is that you're
able to promote causes that you care
about
yeah is that something you feel all
celebrities to occupy that sort of
following should do no I do I do I know
I I never expect anyone to care as much
as I do about anything and that and I
don't expect then to be surprised when I
don't care about their thing you know
everyone everyone's everyone's different
I've always done this people say you
know I've always cared about animal
court you just you know I suppose I had
less of an audience when I was 20 or 25
no I'd do it because I can't I can't
bear it
I you know I I don't know why I you know
it's always it's always made it's the
one thing that's always sort of made my
blood boil and even to the point of
depression that you know that I just
don't get animal cruelty I don't get it
I don't get any cruelty but at least
people can speak so no it's just a you
know they said how I've always been I've
always I've always loved nature and
animals I've always fight was a
privilege to have a wild animal you know
or domestic but I just think it's a when
I'm at home we've got a rule that the
cat is asleep on our lap
the other one has to get the drinks we
can't disturb it I just don't want to
disturb this is so lovely and peaceful
and yeah and I do I do I suppose are
probably over emotional over over
animals so we personify them and but
yeah but I've always I've always felt
the way I probably I probably care more
about the individual quality of an
animal than animal husbandry or or or
wildlife conservation in a way I just
think if there's last two leopards don't
put them in a cage and try and save the
species let them go and okay that's the
species gone but you know I worry about
the the rights of the individual animal
great well um so moving on to a
different topic I mentioned in my
introduction you know the office is
being remade I think six or seven times
now we met year local Remax yeah I think
the last one just happened it's not out
yet I think it's a finished version but
the you know when you first came up with
the script and the idea that was over
you know 15 years ago do you think it's
a show that would be commissioned today
do you think humors in the same place
would be commissioned then if if I had
made my own little demo of it because if
you think about it it doesn't jump off
the page
you know middle-aged man says a joke
that no one laughs at looks at the
camera touch his tie
it's I think I think comedies you know
to be performed you know so I had to
show them what I meant and it way and it
was a it was a slightly different show
because it was about it was about
because it was steeped in realism it was
a fake documentary so I had to be real
so did the the dialogue so did the you
know characterization and the way we
speak was a lot of its nonverbal we
stopped halfway through a sense we go um
um we use our hands we we look around we
don't look at the person we look at our
feet when we're lying so it had to be
seen because on the page you couldn't
tell what sort of person David Brent was
it's how he acts and why he acts you
know he if that had been a
straightforward sitcom that wasn't
effect documentary it's been nothing but
when you realize he's showing off
because he thinks he's going to be
discovered well it brings it to life now
he's a now he's a man baby narcissist
but but an early prototype not nothing
nothing on Trump you know he's he's he
put David Brent to shame so that and
that's what the the movie life on the
road it's all looked into is how the
world's changed in those 15 years and
you know he's an early sort of reality
star and by today's standards he's he's
hasn't got the power nowadays because
it's since then we've had things like
The Apprentice where people get on it by
saying I would destroy anyone who stands
in my way and people go in Big Brother
and they they promise that they're
they're behaved badly and I just think
there's this it's an odd thing now that
there's no difference between Fame and
infamy people do bad things to be famous
and they get rewarded for it there's
people that do nothing to be famous they
just they just live their life like an
open wound
and they're rewarded for it I mean a
think that's reward you know and people
some people use it as therapy how often
have you seen like a a celebrity who's
fallen from grace often through no fault
of their own but they go into Celebrity
Big Brother and they say I want to show
the public a different side of me I'm
thinking why do you care they want you
to fight again you're that you know this
isn't this isn't good for you so when
it's yes it's it's it's all it's all
come together that that reality that
that bravado that machismo the bragging
about how ruthless you are in business
and it's very hard do you think we have
a warped sense of reality now given the
abundance of all these different reality
programs that are out there and people
who are who are allegedly ordinary
people gay on TV and saying ridiculous
things in this circulating all over the
Internet and all across well it's not
even reality anymore isn't it because
it's so contrived you know that they've
now they condense it now they contrived
situations there's there's no real
there's no real reality shows anymore if
it's bit pure it's it it's aimed to
appeal to our sort of voyeuristic
tendencies and we're all well guilty you
know from you know X Factor when they in
the preliminary rounds they weird out
the mentally ill to be sniggered out by
you know millionaires we're a part of
that are people having proper nervous
breakdowns in Big Brother we're all part
of that and you know that's what drama
is when it's when it's real it's
conflict we don't want to watch 12
people sitting around having a nice
conversation we want a fist fight if
we're gonna you know that's so it does
appeal it sort of appeals to the the
worst of our instincts I think earlier
we touched
the idea of you know ego and Prejudice
you said this is something you
interested in exploring your toenails
called humanity and I think that
probably sums up lots of your different
work but for film and TV looking at
people's stories their lives and their
egos turning to yourself rather than any
character you've written or played do
you feel fulfilled with what you're
doing today is there some other big
challenge or big project you'd like to
take on and give you more fulfillment I
don't know I've never I've just always
got up in the morning and wanted to fill
the day with as much fun as possible you
know I suppose that's everything I've
done is sort of slightly existential as
well and from the office it's about you
know people becoming 14 are they doing
the right thing Derek it was about
people at the end of their life what
what can they pass on even my children
but flanimals was about the sort of
futility of life and nature and ironic
deaths and I don't know why that is
really I think it's funny
I think it's funny life I think is it's
it's amusing because we take everything
so seriously we care about everything
passionately we have fights Wars worry
about little things and then we die and
the North effer and there's nothing it
was pointless pointless we would turn we
would tend to the stars so I've always
thought I want to fill my days with fun
and if the end was tomorrow we'd be
happy oh well
hopefully not but no no but um you know
as I often sign off on Facebook
I've to my and Twitter I sign off I hope
you die in your sleep and that's the
nicest thing I can say to anyone I hope
you die in a state if someone said find
you if if we all died in our sleep I
wouldn't care about anything do you know
oh there'd be nothing to worry about
because that's what we worry about
we don't worry about not existing we
worry about oh my god am I gonna be I'm
not gonna be squashed by a safe and be
on this street and am I gonna fall on a
spike is it gonna be a long lingering
death am I going to be eaten by wolves
well I suppose said no you're gonna die
in your sleep
drunk I'll go bring it on well I'm on
that uplifting note let's get a few
questions from the audience if you'd
like to ask a question and please raise
your hand if you're selected wait for
the microphone to reach you before
asking your question is any one
particular you'd like to pick
oh sorry was that one where well I did
somebody but oh no I know I don't want
this is oh this is horrible I don't want
to well I'll find some of this right the
person over there towards the front
third row can you see the karl
Pilkington radio shows coming back any
time the thing is with that is a people
gasping and I do miss it and I and I
even now and again listen to some of the
old ones though everyone hear that
question it's Karl Pilkington's our
podcast coming back and I don't think it
would work I think I think Karl became
my little public experiment it was like
a cross between stiff Elsa unscripted it
was unscripted and that was that is that
is that is real it was it was unscripted
but it was it where he was like my
little experiment I like a cross between
I don't know have you seen the film
lawnmower man it was like okay um
cracking reference to anyone who has but
I always thought that car was like I'd
found I found him a ten thousand year
old caveman and shaved it thawed it out
put clothes on it and then tried to
teach it sort of art and philosophy and
science and I think because he had a
good brain I kept telling my said you've
got a good brain you've got a brain you
just don't use it right and you know he
just he just he just found he found
things that interested him which was
furious and often apocryphal or nonsense
just things on the internet you know
baby baby born half monkey half as well
it's not true Karl it's not true
you go look at him I go it's just a
hairy kid he's a hairy kid he's a hair
is a hundred percent human he's got a
lot of hair says here he's half monkey
it doesn't matter what it says their car
it's not half monkey so but I think he I
think he became sort of a little bit
more worldly wise it's that chemistry
that you guys captured in that show it's
hard to replicate that kind of chemistry
oh you couldn't you couldn't contrive it
it was it I discovered him he opened his
little slackjaw once and he said
something and I just I just my ears went
up like that and I just thought this
guy's interesting it's like I found him
under a rock so I I don't think it would
be the same I don't think he's that he's
sort of retired now it doesn't matter
how many times I very listen to it it's
still it's still gotten its its I I
listen to about people send me tweets of
like clips and I'd completely forgotten
about them but um it's like the first
time he heard about something that I
might introduce a concept to him and
it's the first time here and I can hear
his brain working it's like a silence
where you know it's a things to me like
like childlike it
it's a things why they said he said
what's the most amazing fact ever
oh cool what do you mean he went they
said tell me something that'll blow me
mind I said I said well the night room
infinite is pretty amazing I said okay
is well I said there was many even
numbers as even an odd numbers put
together he went no I told him I told
him the theory that the you know the
model of infinity and the infinite
amount of chimps working on typewriters
would write the computer Shakespeare he
wouldn't have thought he'd said if they
read Shakespeare I went that's nothing I
said that's the that's nothing to do
with it right Eve god I just don't think
they'd do that I don't know they know
take out cognitive reason that there's
no choice they've chosen monkeys to take
out choice in the reasons they're just
hitting away like that and he just
couldn't get it he couldn't get that it
was a yeah but so I I think he's learned
his lesson and I think he's sort of
content I just don't think it would work
now well Thank You Ricky thank you
let's have another question from let's
go to the hand over there and the the
bright blue t-shirt
hi Ricky thanks so much for coming I
wanted to ask as a kind of aspiring
comedian myself you've had a really
interesting background I remember in an
interview or a video with Chris Rock
Seinfeld and Louie CK talking about how
you had a bizarre route into comedy
because you wrote this may be the best
sitcom ever and then years later did
stand-up what advice would you have to
aspiring comedians
secondly very quickly would you ever are
you going to work with Stephen Merchant
again because I really miss all those
projects you did with him I thought they
were amazing and finally do you do you
ever read the Facebook comments and if
so you tempted to reply to them right
okay okay what was the first one that's
not good right yeah um right I'd say
well no it's funny because I've sort of
quite that's true when I am so I got
into comedy I was already a comedian
before I sort of decided I'd become
comedian he just sort of happened I went
on the radio show and I and I was meant
to be the head of speech I have a normal
job I worked in an office for ten years
which is what I based the office on and
then I got a job in a radio station and
I was meant to go in and and sort of be
writing little things for the DJ's and
because I'm so lazy I thought I'll just
do this myself so I went in I popped up
I did funny things and you know and then
the bosses said listen you're you're
rubbish at your real job so just do that
and and it grew and I became like the
the comedy turn on XFM got discovered by
Channel four and all that so by the time
I did stand-up I did think oh I should
do that and I went along and my first
four stand-up shows I sort of wrote over
I wrote them like I was doing you know
like an Edinburgh show or almost like a
TV lecture and then I went out and I did
it and it was fine
this one I've cracked it I did it
differently III feel that I think I
walked out with a few things on the back
of my hand I didn't use multimedia I
didn't use you know any structure and I
just talked and I feel that I'm a
stand-up for the first time I feel that
this tour I can say I'm a stand-up and
the first four tours I was in the
ballpark
so I'd say and here's another revelation
that shouldn't be a revelation it should
be obvious stage time is everything you
can you can write and write and write
and it can be pretty funny and they can
laugh but if you do the stage time you
it's it's actually doing it I I can't
think of an analogy there's nothing like
it
other than okay you could you could
learn about making pots on a pot as well
in theory you could learn if you can
watch YouTube is you could be an expert
and until you put your hands on it you
know these are you know I think that's
it you've got it's stage time and our
stage time is worth 50 hours writing if
you if you haven't done it yet it's
stage time it's just doing it doing it
you know and if you can do it if you
could do it every night um you know you
might be you might be getting and it
depends what you mean by good do you
mean good you're good and it works every
night to 15 people or do you mean I'm
good because I'm making money now and
I'm famous and everyone loves me I mean
the latter yeah well then there's a
whole lot of luck as well then my okay
is my advice work hard and be lucky but
I just think I think you have a passion
for it you've got have a voice you got
to find your voice
how old do you 23 see 23 right you're
young handsome what do you want to be a
comedian for fuck you
great ok another question then please
let's go to the as a hand directly
behind on the second row with the
glasses hi
with the adaption of the British office
for American audiences do you think that
the humor was also adapted and what do
you think the difference is if you think
there is a difference at all between
British and American humor
ok I've thought about this a lot ok um
doesn't mean I'm right but I I've got a
good answer um well there's there's no
real difference in humor right humor you
know everyone's different within their
own what they find funny but humor is
just about the same it's it's it's it's
what we all have and what we all use I
think we mean when we say humor we mean
comedy is American comedy different -
because we're all the same we're you
know with outside cultural reference you
know I think and and and before I got
onto the office even just doing stand-up
people think it must be so what do you
change to do go to America I don't
change anything I don't change I don't
change
tap to force it or pavement decide what
they know what I'm talking about you
know I don't talk about last night's big
brother winner
I don't you know but when you're deed I
try and deal in sort of Universal
subjects and outside you know language
barriers the people and people are the
same there's dumb people and they're
smart people that's the big difference
that's the only difference in dumb and
smart
right now I'm but the difference between
American comedy and English comedy I
think was highlighted in the difference
between the English and the American
office and that is in Britain we we like
the underdog
we love the underdog we we we have a
until they're not the underdog anymore
then we don't like them anymore but we
celebrate we celebrate and we laugh and
almost embrace failure whereas Americans
that they're there it's a myth that
Americans don't get already this doesn't
that's ridiculous it total myth right
but they don't use it all the time like
we do to British guys meet they go or
nice haircut they can't they can't they
can't say oh you look good mate okay
they go what's up with you what what
what that it would blow our minds we're
as Americans that they're not Americans
aren't afraid of sincerity you know and
I think that that's the difference
because David Brent was so sort of bad
at his job an awful when it was so sort
of depressing that American audience
couldn't they couldn't they wouldn't
have quite taken that I think so we had
to make Steve Carell a little bit nice
and more positive possibly better at his
job a little bit better looking but not
too much because that is the truth and
and and it comes down to expectations
and optimism and and all that because
Americans are brought up and you know
better than me but I feel that Americans
are brought up to believe they can be
the next president United States British
people have told it won't happen to you
so don't bother and I think that that is
a it's raining you know so I think I
think that is the big difference that's
the only thing like an eye can see and
and then when we're talking about the
industry it's very different the amount
of right is the amount of money that
that makes a big difference with what
gets on television and stuff but but but
that's not that's not to do with what
you asked I don't think but I think I
think pretty people are pretty much the
same wherever you go if you if you're
not being shot at and your firstborn
isn't dying of dysentery
you know we worry about the same things
we worry about what's happening what's
happening in our world you know
you I've seen it all the time if you if
you you're watching the television and
the news was a country it just sunk
right
you'd go all Mike you didn't get any
milk you know you we bring it back you
always bring it back to you and people
of us that that's the same anywhere
great thank you
let's go to the hand at the very back on
the end of row hi Ricky
just wanna say I'm a massive fan of all
of your work but also in particular
extras that's definitely my favorite
thank you I just want to know if you
obviously I'm not expecting it's going
to make a resurgence or anything like
that but if it were to or or if you know
at the time one of the celebrities had
said no is there any celebrity or
particular type of celebrity that you'd
have liked to have caricatured that you
didn't get the opportunity to or even
maybe in the modern climate is there
anyone new that you would like to
caricature as well it'd be difficult now
because everyone does it now every
everyone when you know TV is now reduced
to what two minute clip gets on YouTube
for hits the next day everyone's done it
you know you there's I mean when the
president United States is getting into
Twitter fights with reality stars you
know society is crumbled
so I you know we used to take what's we
used to take really dignified people and
break them down like you know
Shakespearean actors or you know but now
who's left you know I mean
we don't mother trays are doing carpool
karaoke if she was alive now so I don't
I don't know if extras would I don't
know what I don't know what extras would
have to do to satirize what's happening
do you not I mean
it would be it was like a quaint time
then it was like people would go oh look
David Bowie pretending to be well that
that what the real presidents doing you
know so III just I don't think it would
have legs I don't know I don't know what
who you'd have to who's left
you know Obama did you know comedians
getting coffee and cars with Jerry
Seinfeld you know yeah I think that was
of its time and it's only ten years old
look what's happened in ten years what's
next
so when although I do miss it I did I
really enjoy it but I enjoyed I mean I
did enjoy you know working with my
heroes and having fun with those people
and deconstructing Fame but the thing I
enjoyed most about it is the is like
Andy and Maggie's relationship I like
the real characters that they were and
that's why I made it extras and not
actors because I think had to be people
on the bottom rung watching looking at
this mad world and I think you always
have to do that with comedy I think you
I think you have to there has to be a
hill to climb so I am I I just don't I
don't think there's any place to go now
with celebrities and also they're so in
on it now they realize now it's like oh
if I do that then people will think I'm
not really like that
that there was so that there to
everyone's to willing to do anything to
be on telly for a minute that's the
problem we have you know I just think
people are told oh this will get 50
million YouTube hits I don't know who's
saying no anymore I don't know who's
saying no who are these people that you
know that David Bao is great because it
was the only thing he ever he ever did
was the last thing he did you know that
that now that's special but now you know
people go on American chat shows and to
show a clip they pay ping they play ping
pong you know in masks or throw custard
pies at each other it's like okay why
are we watching there's no interviews
anymore don't know why they're called
chat shows anymore
there's no chat it's just a game so well
maybe I should bring it back just to be
angry I think we've got time for two
more questions so let's go to the hand
in the middle over there the white
t-shirt
I'll answer faster than we can get
everyone who wants to ask question okay
um because you haven't been Umbra
Hollister per I sort of feel we need to
ask would you rather date a man who was
a six-foot penis or would you rather
date a man who instead of a penis had
another tiny man
the six-foot penis right he is basically
a six-foot penis but he can talk you'd
sort of free to interpret
what sort of questions that I'm asking
you you could you can't you can't come
up with a question and then back out you
haven't thought it through so it's a six
foot he's a six foot penis who what
walks along on testicles presumably
right if not in now he's only get away
with anything here right so so it hasn't
got a face so he has got a face and so
you could have like a little face on the
helmet right right and he's got clothing
and just his hound wit coming out of his
suit and tie okay right yeah and and the
other the other guy is he's a normal
person except that instead of having a
penis he has a little man and there's
this little man at his own little man do
I have to worry about him as well what
he wants to eat and drink well like sure
lead one at least like converse with him
or know it well not in the restaurant
that is still that is still his penis it
just happens to look like a little man
so okay so I think I'm why am I going
out with men anyway we could reverse it
it's a six foot Volvo
[Music]
stick to the man I want stick to the
original question okay right a six-foot
penis remember I was saying the world's
changed
did you ask Arafat this
I'd listen I I can't be seen walking
down the street with a six-foot penis so
I'm gonna go that and no one needs to
know that my new boyfriend for some
reason has got another little boyfriend
in his trousers okay let's move on
Oh how was the ultimate union Wow yes
Eric thank for your talk today I was
just gonna mention that I was quite me
as that you said you don't bring
politics into your comedy when you did a
stand-up show entitled politics yeah I
was gonna say you're in Oxford at the
moment in case you didn't know and now
by the question an Oxford and Cambridge
have produced some really you know like
really good comedians and growing out
concerns Stephen Fry and a whole host of
others you went to UCL yourself I wonder
do you think you need to be clever to be
funny is there a certain amount of
intelligence required for comedy well I
don't know would the answer's no you
don't need to be intelligent to be funny
because there's lots of types of funny
isn't there so but if you're talking
about you know a stand-up comedian
having something to say and making
people think as well then I think you
certainly have to be analytical and I
think you have to have an angle so
you're later to have to thought
something out and I think you have to
have a certain amount of fairness as
well I think the I'm very I try and make
my jokes I try and make the targets fair
III don't joke about things that people
can't help I joke about people's
behavior often or and that's just that's
just personal and I also think that it
is it it is a bonus if you can make
people think as well as laughs because a
lot laughs easy I could fall over and
you'd laugh right thanks a lot
in fact one of you would film it for
YouTube I imagine him or and 250 pounds
for so I I think that um
comedy is best probably is is clever but
then there's something very nice and
visceral and you know it is funny to see
someone fall over you know I mean that
I'm sort of metaphorically but you know
IIIi love Lauren Hardy and what was nice
about them was the the sort of
relationship that was so precarious and
there we were laughing their situation
to pretension of one and the the guy who
didn't care but the guy didn't care the
pretentious guy who thought that he was
cleverer than the other one he always
ended up down you know face down in the
duck pond so I think if you analyze most
comedy there's there's there's something
clever in it there's another layer as
opposed to it just looking at YouTube
clips of people falling down cellars
which are hilarious by the way well I
was just gonna say the reason I asked
that question because you were talking
about karl Pilkington
and like I don't know if you would say
that he's a clever man but he was
certainly incredibly funny he was
incredibly funny but it was attitude
that was funny and if you took it by
himself there was still the relationship
it still needed a couple of pretentious
media types thinking they were winning
but they were losing because he didn't
care what we thought so there was still
a little bit of a dynamic going on not
just if karl Pilkington went on the
radio and said all right world is what I
think monkeys in that people go wise I
spoke to her but because he was goaded
by a couple of pseudo-intellectual media
types thinking that they were
embarrassing in it there became there
became a texture to it and people wanted
him to win people loved him winning
winning was maybe making me laugh or
being proved right first something that
you know so there's still there was
still something going on it wasn't just
it wasn't just a man saying stupid
things so yeah does that make sense yeah
I think so thank you very much okay
let's take one final super quick bonus
question so these two
when I choose one sorry yeah wait for
the microphone okay I don't want the
responsibility
thank you I was wondering about your
relationship with Stephen Merchant and
how the creative process changes when
you're working with a partner versus
well um very quickly with any
collaboration I've worked with Steve
I've worked with Matt Robinson I've
worked with David Koepp and I always had
one rule which is let me get my own way
or I'm sulking and one veto and it's out
so what you don't do is you don't you
never come in with two different scripts
and and and then fight for you you work
on something and if one of you doesn't
like something it doesn't go in because
you don't want to be left with anything
that one of you doesn't like so often
you might throw out you might throw out
90% of the stuff right but the bit
that's left you both love but other than
that there's loads of ways to
collaborate you know team right in you
know I think the best idea wins I think
that's that's what it comes down to but
if you're if you're any sort of an outer
then you sort of you sort of want to do
it your way all the time so there's
there's always a compromise with with
one other person there to other people
and two heads are better than one but I
always think that the trouble I have
with collaboration is it doesn't feel
like you know with team writing there's
less fun in it for me I like the day but
I don't like doing things that won't
come but I won't come didn't completely
come up with all love it's a difficult
thing to say and I do it because it's
fun coming up with stuff so if I was in
a room and I was you know a tractor host
and I had all these writers and they
came up with everything for me I
wouldn't enjoy that because the bit
that's missing was the fun of me coming
up with stuff does that make sense
that's the buzz for me having an idea
that's my adrenaline rush
and then and then trying to not ruin it
so just walking into a room and getting
the script and then read nor OQ at that
but that means nothing to me
and it could be great and some people
love it and it could be lucrative but I
feel that even it into a certain degree
I don't love as much as coming up with
the with the stuff so I just think it
depends on what sort of person you are
I think I'm an egomaniac great well
unfortunately that's all we've got time
for but thank you so much for coming
along today it's a great way for every
end there to thank you and if you could
please remain seated while Ricky leaves
the room but join me in thanking Ricky
for coming along today
you